.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, before:

---
name: Feature Request
about: Suggest an idea for this project
title: '[FEATURE] '
labels: enhancement
assignees: ''

---

## 🚀 Feature Description
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

## 💡 Motivation
Explain the problem you're trying to solve and why this feature would be useful.

## 📋 Detailed Description
Provide a detailed description of the feature:
- How should it work?
- What should the user experience be like?
- Any specific requirements?

## 🎨 Mockups/Examples
If applicable, add sketches, mockups, or examples to help explain your idea.

## 🔄 Alternatives Considered
A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

## 📱 Platform
Which platforms should this feature support?
- [ ] Android
- [ ] iOS
- [ ] Web
- [ ] Desktop

## ⚡ Priority
How important is this feature to you?
- [ ] Low
- [ ] Medium
- [ ] High
- [ ] Critical

## 📋 Additional Context
Add any other context, screenshots, or examples about the feature request here.

## 🤝 Implementation
Are you willing to work on this feature?
- [ ] Yes, I can work on this
- [ ] Yes, with guidance
- [ ] No, but I can test it
- [ ] No

Commit message:

docs: update feature request template to clarify contribution options

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, after:

---
name: Feature Request
about: Suggest an idea for this project
title: '[FEATURE] '
labels: enhancement
assignees: ''

---

## 🚀 Feature Description
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

## 💡 Motivation
Explain the problem you're trying to solve and why this feature would be useful.

## 📋 Detailed Description
Provide a detailed description of the feature:
- How should it work?
- What should the user experience be like?
- Any specific requirements?

## 🎨 Mockups/Examples
If applicable, add sketches, mockups, or examples to help explain your idea.

## 🔄 Alternatives Considered
A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

## 📱 Platform
Which platforms should this feature support?
- [ ] Android
- [ ] iOS
- [ ] Web
- [ ] Desktop

## ⚡ Priority
How important is this feature to you?
- [ ] Low
- [ ] Medium
- [ ] High
- [ ] Critical

## 📋 Additional Context
Add any other context, screenshots, or examples about the feature request here.

## 🤝 Contribution (Optional)
Your feature request is valuable regardless! If you're interested in contributing, let us know how:
- [ ] I'd love to help implement this
- [ ] I can help with guidance from maintainers
- [ ] I can help with testing when it's ready
- [ ] I prefer to just share the idea (and that's perfectly fine!)
